README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/IBM/Portfolio-Optmize.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/IBM/Portfolio-Optimize)
# Socially Responsible Investment Portfolio Construction

In this developer journey, we will demonstrate how to collect information from a user to build a socially responsible portfolio that maintains the same risk and return profile of a standardized portfolio. 

This journey leverages two services:
- The **Investment Portfolio service** is used to manage and store portfolios and financial security information such as the set of eligible investments, benchmarks, and user portfolios.
- The **Portfolio Optimization service** is used to determine an optimal set of holdings based on a user's constraints and preferences. This could be a [Markowitz](https://www.math.ust.hk/~maykwok/courses/ma362/07F/markowitz_JF.pdf) minimum variance, maximum return efficient portfolio or minimization of tracking error with respect to a benchmark. This journey explores the latter use case.

When the reader has completed this journey, they will understand how to:

* Load and retrieve data from the Investment Portfolio service
* Construct a payload to generate an optimization request from the Portfolio Optimization service.
* Construct a user interface to gather requirements and constraints from the user and return the details of the optimized portfolio.

<p align="center">
  <img src="static/images/PortfolioOptimizationArch.png">
</p>



## Included Components
+ IBM Cloud Investment Portfolio
+ IBM Cloud Portfolio Optimization

## Steps

Use the ``Deploy to IBM Cloud`` button **OR** create the services and run ``Run Locally``.

## Deploy to IBM Cloud

[![Deploy to IBM Cloud](https://bluemix.net/deploy/button.png)](https://bluemix.net/devops/setup/deploy?repository=https://github.com/IBM/Portfolio-Optimize)

**Note:** The code automatically prepopulates the Investment Portfolio service before running the front end.  This is done without use the typical raw curl command. See Step 6: [Initialize Investment Portfolio](#6-initalize-the-investment-portfolio-service) for more details.

## Running the Application Locally
Follow these steps to setup and run this developer journey. The steps are described in detail below.

## Prerequisites
- [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

## Steps to run locally
1. [Clone the repo](#1-clone-the-repo)
2. [Create IBM Cloud services](#2-create-bluemix-services)
3. [Configure Manifest file](#3-configure-manifest)
4. [Configure .env file](#4-configure-env-file)
5. [Run Application](#5-run-application)
6. [Initialize Investment Portfolio](#6-initalize-the-investment-portfolio-service)

## 1. Clone the repo

Clone the `Build-an-optimal-investment-portfolio code` locally. In a terminal, run:

  `$ git clone https://github.com/IBM/Build-an-optimal-investment-portfolio.git`

## 2. Create IBM Cloud services

Create the following services:

* [**Investment Portfolio**](https://console.ng.bluemix.net/catalog/services/investment-portfolio)
* [**Portfolio Optimization**](https://console.bluemix.net/catalog/services/portfolio-optimization)

## 3. Configure Manifest file

Edit the `manifest.yml` file in the folder that contains your code and replace with a unique name for your application. The name that you specify determines the application's URL, such as `your-application-name.mybluemix.net`. Additionally - update the service names so they match what you have in the IBM Cloud. The relevant portion of the `manifest.yml` file looks like the following:

  ```none
  declared-services:
    Investment-Portfolio:
      label: fss-portfolio-service
      plan: fss-portfolio-service-free-plan
    Portfolio-Optimization:
      label: fss-financial-optimization-service
      plan: fss-financial-optimization-service-free-plan
  applications:
  - path: .
    memory: 128M
    instances: 1
    name: Socially-Responsible-Investment-Portfolio-Construction
    disk_quota: 1024M
    domain: mybluemix.net
    services:
    - Investment-Portfolio
    - Portfolio-Optimization
    buildpack: python_buildpack
  ```

## 4. Configure .env file

Create a `.env` file in the root directory of your clone of the project repository by copying the sample `.env.example` file using the following command:

  ```none
  cp .env.example .env
  ```

  **NOTE** Most files systems regard files with a "." at the front as hidden files.  If you are on a Windows system, you should be able to use either [GitBash](https://git-for-windows.github.io/) or [Xcopy](https://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/xcopy.mspx?mfr=true)

You will need to update the credentials with the IBM Cloud credentials for each of the services you created in [Step 2](#2-create-bluemix-services).

The `.env` file will look something like the following:

  ```none
# Investment Portfolio
CRED_PORTFOLIO_USERID_W=
CRED_PORTFOLIO_PWD_W=
CRED_PORTFOLIO_USERID_R=
CRED_PORTFOLIO_PWD_R=

# Portfolio Optimizer
CRED_OPTIMIZER_uri=https://fss-analytics.mybluemix.net/
CRED_OPTIMIZER_accessToken=
  ```

## 5. Run Application

cd into this project's root directory
+ Run `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install the app's dependencies
+ Run `python run.py`
+ Access the running app in a browser at <http://0.0.0.0:8080/>

## 6. Initalize the Investment Portfolio Service

The application relies on a few elements pre-populated in the Investment Portfolio service. The user interface will read from this service in order to retrieve the properties and selections that a user can interact with. 

Once the application is running, we can initialize the service by populating the Investment Portfolio service with the information it needs. 

Some points to note:
- make sure the `.env` file has been updated with your user credentials for the Investment Portfolio service.
- You can observe the financial security choices and meta-data in the `Instrument Universe.csv` file. 
- Benchmark options and weights are defined in the `benchmarks.csv` file. You can specify weights instead of position units (e.g. .25 for 25% allocation)
- An example user portfolio is defined in the `portfolio.csv` file. Here, position units are expected as the total value of the optimized portfolio will match the current value of this (unless a cash infusion is specified in the request).

You have the ability to initalize the application by accessing the initialize endpoint in your browser by navigating to <http://0.0.0.0:8080/api/init>.

Find more information on Investment Portfolio api calls [here](https://console.ng.bluemix.net/apidocs/751-investment-portfolio?&language=node#introduction).

*Note that accessing the `/api/reset` endpoint will delete all of the portfolios in the service that the `/api/init` endpoint created. You can always start over this way, but be careful to not access this if you've done considerable work.*

#7. Learn More
[Big Data and Analytics Hub](http://www.ibmbigdatahub.com/tag/2679)
[Data & Analytics Architecture](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/garage/content/architecture/dataAnalyticsArchitecture)

# Troubleshooting

* To troubleshoot your IBM Cloud application, use the logs. To see the logs, run:

```bash
cf logs <application-name> --recent
```

* If you are running locally - inspect your environment variables closely to confirm they match.  Try running each service as standalone:

```bash
python InvestmentPortfolio.py
python PortfolioOptimization.py
```

## Privacy Notice

This web application includes code to track deployments to [IBM Cloud](https://www.bluemix.net/) runtimes and services. The following information is sent to a [Metrics Tracker](https://github.com/IBM/metrics-collector-service) service on each deployment:

* Application Name (`application_name`)
* Application GUID (`application_id`)
* Application instance index (`instance_index`)
* Space ID (`space_id`)
* Application Version (`application_version`)
* Application URIs (`application_uris`)
* Labels of bound services
* Number of instances for each bound service

This data is collected from the `VCAP_APPLICATION` and `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variables in IBM Cloud. This data is used by IBM to track metrics around deployments of sample applications to IBM Cloud to measure the usefulness of our examples, so that we can continuously improve the content we offer to you. Only deployments of sample applications that include code to ping the Deployment Tracker service will be tracked.

### Disabling Deployment Tracking

Disabling the deployment tracker varies based on sample application implementation. Please include specific disabling instructions within your README's Privacy Notice.

# Privacy Notice

If using the Deploy to IBM Cloud button some metrics are tracked, the following
information is sent to [Deployment Tracker](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/cf-deployment-tracker-service) and 
[Metrics collector](https://github.com/IBM/metrics-collector-service) service on each deployment:

* Python package version
* Python repository URL
* Application Name (application_name)
* Application GUID (application_id)
* Application instance index number (instance_index)
* Space ID (space_id)
* Application Version (application_version)
* Application URIs (application_uris)
* Cloud Foundry API (cf_api)
* Labels of bound services
* Number of instances for each bound service and associated plan information

This data is collected from the setup.py and repository.yaml file in the sample application and the ``VCAP_APPLICATION``
and ``VCAP_SERVICES`` environment variables in IBM Cloud and other Cloud Foundry platforms. This
data is used by IBM to track metrics around deployments of sample applications to IBM Cloud to
measure the usefulness of our examples, so that we can continuously improve the content we offer
to you. Only deployments of sample applications that include code to ping the Deployment Tracker
service will be tracked.

## Disabling Deployment Tracking

To disable tracking, simply remove ``cf_deployment_tracker.track()`` and ``metrics_tracker_client.track()`` from the
``run.py`` file in the top level directory.


# License

[Apache 2.0](LICENSE)

Commit message:

metrics trackers+ deployment+ other updates

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/IBM/Portfolio-Optmize.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/IBM/Portfolio-Optimize)
# Socially Responsible Investment Portfolio Construction

In this developer journey, we will demonstrate how to collect information from a user to build a socially responsible portfolio that maintains the same risk and return profile of a standardized portfolio.

This journey leverages two services:
- The **Investment Portfolio service** is used to manage and store portfolios and financial security information such as the set of eligible investments, benchmarks, and user portfolios.
- The **Portfolio Optimization service** is used to determine an optimal set of holdings based on a user's constraints and preferences. This could be a [Markowitz](https://www.math.ust.hk/~maykwok/courses/ma362/07F/markowitz_JF.pdf) minimum variance, maximum return efficient portfolio or minimization of tracking error with respect to a benchmark. This journey explores the latter use case.

When the reader has completed this journey, they will understand how to:

* Load and retrieve data from the Investment Portfolio service
* Construct a payload to generate an optimization request from the Portfolio Optimization service.
* Construct a user interface to gather requirements and constraints from the user and return the details of the optimized portfolio.

<p align="center">
  <img src="static/images/PortfolioOptimizationArch.png">
</p>



## Included Components
+ IBM Cloud Investment Portfolio
+ IBM Cloud Portfolio Optimization

## Steps

Use the ``Deploy to IBM Cloud`` button **OR** create the services and run ``Run Locally``.

## Deploy to IBM Cloud

[![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IBM/manage-control-device-node-red/master/images/deploy-btn.PNG)](https://console.ng.bluemix.net/devops/setup/deploy/?repository=https://github.com/IBM/Portfolio-Optimize)


**Note:** The code automatically prepopulates the Investment Portfolio service before running the front end.  This is done without use the typical raw curl command. See Step 6: [Initialize Investment Portfolio](#6-initalize-the-investment-portfolio-service) for more details.

## Running the Application Locally
Follow these steps to setup and run this developer journey. The steps are described in detail below.

## Prerequisites
- [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

## Steps to run locally
1. [Clone the repo](#1-clone-the-repo)
2. [Create IBM Cloud services](#2-create-bluemix-services)
3. [Configure Manifest file](#3-configure-manifest)
4. [Configure .env file](#4-configure-env-file)
5. [Run Application](#5-run-application)
6. [Initialize Investment Portfolio](#6-initalize-the-investment-portfolio-service)

## 1. Clone the repo

Clone the `Build-an-optimal-investment-portfolio code` locally. In a terminal, run:

  `$ git clone https://github.com/IBM/Build-an-optimal-investment-portfolio.git`

## 2. Create IBM Cloud services

Create the following services:

* [**Investment Portfolio**](https://console.ng.bluemix.net/catalog/services/investment-portfolio)
* [**Portfolio Optimization**](https://console.bluemix.net/catalog/services/portfolio-optimization)

## 3. Configure Manifest file

Edit the `manifest.yml` file in the folder that contains your code and replace with a unique name for your application. The name that you specify determines the application's URL, such as `your-application-name.mybluemix.net`. Additionally - update the service names so they match what you have in the IBM Cloud. The relevant portion of the `manifest.yml` file looks like the following:

  ```none
  declared-services:
    Investment-Portfolio:
      label: fss-portfolio-service
      plan: fss-portfolio-service-free-plan
    Portfolio-Optimization:
      label: fss-financial-optimization-service
      plan: fss-financial-optimization-service-free-plan
  applications:
  - path: .
    memory: 128M
    instances: 1
    name: Socially-Responsible-Investment-Portfolio-Construction
    disk_quota: 1024M
    domain: mybluemix.net
    services:
    - Investment-Portfolio
    - Portfolio-Optimization
    buildpack: python_buildpack
  ```

## 4. Configure .env file

Create a `.env` file in the root directory of your clone of the project repository by copying the sample `.env.example` file using the following command:

  ```none
  cp .env.example .env
  ```

  **NOTE** Most files systems regard files with a "." at the front as hidden files.  If you are on a Windows system, you should be able to use either [GitBash](https://git-for-windows.github.io/) or [Xcopy](https://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/xcopy.mspx?mfr=true)

You will need to update the credentials with the IBM Cloud credentials for each of the services you created in [Step 2](#2-create-bluemix-services).

The `.env` file will look something like the following:

  ```none
# Investment Portfolio
CRED_PORTFOLIO_USERID_W=
CRED_PORTFOLIO_PWD_W=
CRED_PORTFOLIO_USERID_R=
CRED_PORTFOLIO_PWD_R=

# Portfolio Optimizer
CRED_OPTIMIZER_uri=https://fss-analytics.mybluemix.net/
CRED_OPTIMIZER_accessToken=
  ```

## 5. Run Application

cd into this project's root directory
+ Run `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install the app's dependencies
+ Run `python run.py`
+ Access the running app in a browser at <http://0.0.0.0:8080/>

## 6. Initalize the Investment Portfolio Service

The application relies on a few elements pre-populated in the Investment Portfolio service. The user interface will read from this service in order to retrieve the properties and selections that a user can interact with.

Once the application is running, we can initialize the service by populating the Investment Portfolio service with the information it needs.

Some points to note:
- make sure the `.env` file has been updated with your user credentials for the Investment Portfolio service.
- You can observe the financial security choices and meta-data in the `Instrument Universe.csv` file.
- Benchmark options and weights are defined in the `benchmarks.csv` file. You can specify weights instead of position units (e.g. .25 for 25% allocation)
- An example user portfolio is defined in the `portfolio.csv` file. Here, position units are expected as the total value of the optimized portfolio will match the current value of this (unless a cash infusion is specified in the request).

You have the ability to initalize the application by accessing the initialize endpoint in your browser by navigating to <http://0.0.0.0:8080/api/init>.

Find more information on Investment Portfolio api calls [here](https://console.ng.bluemix.net/apidocs/751-investment-portfolio?&language=node#introduction).

*Note that accessing the `/api/reset` endpoint will delete all of the portfolios in the service that the `/api/init` endpoint created. You can always start over this way, but be careful to not access this if you've done considerable work.*

#7. Learn More
[Big Data and Analytics Hub](http://www.ibmbigdatahub.com/tag/2679)
[Data & Analytics Architecture](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/garage/content/architecture/dataAnalyticsArchitecture)

# Troubleshooting

* To troubleshoot your IBM Cloud application, use the logs. To see the logs, run:

```bash
cf logs <application-name> --recent
```

* If you are running locally - inspect your environment variables closely to confirm they match.  Try running each service as standalone:

```bash
python InvestmentPortfolio.py
python PortfolioOptimization.py
```

## Privacy Notice

This web application includes code to track deployments to [IBM Cloud](https://www.bluemix.net/) runtimes and services. The following information is sent to a [Metrics Tracker](https://github.com/IBM/metrics-collector-service) service on each deployment:

* Application Name (`application_name`)
* Application GUID (`application_id`)
* Application instance index (`instance_index`)
* Space ID (`space_id`)
* Application Version (`application_version`)
* Application URIs (`application_uris`)
* Labels of bound services
* Number of instances for each bound service

This data is collected from the `VCAP_APPLICATION` and `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variables in IBM Cloud. This data is used by IBM to track metrics around deployments of sample applications to IBM Cloud to measure the usefulness of our examples, so that we can continuously improve the content we offer to you. Only deployments of sample applications that include code to ping the Deployment Tracker service will be tracked.

### Disabling Deployment Tracking

Disabling the deployment tracker varies based on sample application implementation. Please include specific disabling instructions within your README's Privacy Notice.

# Privacy Notice

If using the Deploy to IBM Cloud button some metrics are tracked, the following
information is sent to [Deployment Tracker](https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/cf-deployment-tracker-service) and
[Metrics collector](https://github.com/IBM/metrics-collector-service) service on each deployment:

* Python package version
* Python repository URL
* Application Name (application_name)
* Application GUID (application_id)
* Application instance index number (instance_index)
* Space ID (space_id)
* Application Version (application_version)
* Application URIs (application_uris)
* Cloud Foundry API (cf_api)
* Labels of bound services
* Number of instances for each bound service and associated plan information

This data is collected from the setup.py and repository.yaml file in the sample application and the ``VCAP_APPLICATION``
and ``VCAP_SERVICES`` environment variables in IBM Cloud and other Cloud Foundry platforms. This
data is used by IBM to track metrics around deployments of sample applications to IBM Cloud to
measure the usefulness of our examples, so that we can continuously improve the content we offer
to you. Only deployments of sample applications that include code to ping the Deployment Tracker
service will be tracked.

## Disabling Deployment Tracking

To disable tracking, simply remove ``cf_deployment_tracker.track()`` and ``metrics_tracker_client.track()`` from the
``run.py`` file in the top level directory.

## <h2>Learn more</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Artificial Intelligence Code Patterns</strong>: Enjoyed this Code Pattern? Check out our other <a href="https://developer.ibm.com/code/technologies/artificial-intelligence/" rel="nofollow">AI Code Patterns</a>.</li>
<li><strong>Data Analytics Code Patterns</strong>: Enjoyed this Code Pattern? Check out our other <a href="https://developer.ibm.com/code/technologies/data-science/" rel="nofollow">Data Analytics Code Patterns</a></li>
<li><strong>AI and Data Code Pattern Playlist</strong>: Bookmark our <a href="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLzUbsvIyrNfknNewObx5N7uGZ5FKH0Fde" rel="nofollow">playlist</a> with all of our Code Pattern videos</li>
<li><strong>With Watson</strong>: Want to take your Watson app to the next level? Looking to utilize Watson Brand assets? <a href="https://www.ibm.com/watson/with-watson/" rel="nofollow">Join the With Watson program</a> to leverage exclusive brand, marketing, and tech resources to amplify and accelerate your Watson embedded commercial solution.</li>
<li><strong>Data Science Experience</strong>: Master the art of data science with IBM's <a href="https://datascience.ibm.com/" rel="nofollow">Data Science Experience</a></li>
<li><strong>PowerAI</strong>: Get started or get scaling, faster, with a software distribution for machine learning running on the Enterprise Platform for AI: <a href="https://www.ibm.com/ms-en/marketplace/deep-learning-platform" rel="nofollow">IBM Power Systems</a></li>
<li><strong>Spark on IBM Cloud</strong>: Need a Spark cluster? Create up to 30 Spark executors on IBM Cloud with our <a href="https://console.bluemix.net/catalog/services/apache-spark" rel="nofollow">Spark service</a></li>
<li><strong>Kubernetes on IBM Cloud</strong>: Deliver your apps with the combined the power of <a href="https://www.ibm.com/cloud-computing/bluemix/containers" rel="nofollow">Kubernetes and Docker on IBM Cloud</a></li>
</ul>

# License

[Apache 2.0](LICENSE)
